Alright! In the previous video, you saw that
I made mention to a resource that wasn't
there. There's a CSS file, custom CSS file,
that is available. There are reference
inside the templates but we didn't see
it in the resources. You can see here,
I have the static resources up. And we
have fonts, we have images, but we don't
have any CSS files. And if we come back
here and look at source, or come up to
the top. I'm sorry, under main, you can see that we have less
resources. These are CSS stubs that
you get processed. Pretty common thing to
do but we don't have Spring Boot, natively, it does not support the processing
of less resources so these are going to
be compiled. These are all website
resources. Taking a closer look at
what's going on here inside of Spring Pet
Clinic, I'm going to show you the secret
sauce. If we come down here,
you can see that we're using this WRO4J
Maven plugin. So if I come out
here and just google that, we can say
this brings up a whole plugin, web
source resource optimizer for
Java. I've personally never used
this before. It does look like a
pretty solid plugin. If you are doing a
lot of web development, it does open up
some interesting possibilities if we
want to get into that. And taking a look
at what they've done here, we can see
that the configuration is pretty
straightforward. There's a few
things that we need to implement there.
You can see that we have a dependency on
web jars. I do talked about using
web jars in the course. The web jars are
basically a jar file with web resources
in it. You can see here, we are calling
on a dependency for web jars. This
does all the build configuration for
this plugin. What I want to do in this
video is implement that. And just going
along with our habit, we want to enter
implement the WRO4J.
I'm saying that we want to implement
that.
We'll implement that Maven plugin in
the Spring Pet Clinic resources. I'm
going to go ahead and create that issue
and assign that to myself. We are
just going to take exactly what they're
doing in the Spring Pet Clinic Project
and bring that over to us so we can
learn a lot from this. The first thing
is this does reference some jars. You can
see here, we have a section and here of
web jars. I'm going to just grab this
and bring it right on over to our Maven.
I'm going to come over here to
IntelliJ. This is going to be
applicable to the web project. I come
in here and I'll put it right under here.
I'm just doing a paste in there. You
can see that it is asking for the web
jars, bootstrap and jQuery version so
let's come back over here. We see
here, I'm going to grab these web dependency
versions, so we'll just grab those.
I'm just stealing this shamelessly right
from the Spring Pet Clinic reference
project.
Go ahead and define those properties. Now
we can see that this is happy. Next thing
we want to do is grab this build plugin.
There's WRO4J, this website
resources plugin. We'll just grab that
plugin and the associated configuration
of it. And remember, the plugins go under
build plugins and we don't have that
defined in our Maven POM yet. We can
say build plugins like so. I'll just
paste that right in.
We can see that we have a plugin
manager. We have project directory,
classes, static resources, CSS, and that's
a CSS destination folder, so that is
going to get generated by the plugin.
It's referencing a WRO files
that's under source main WRO. So that is
going to be here. Let's minimize
resources. We can see that we have
this WRO folder that is right under
there. I'm going to copy that right on
over, and now this is going to go under
the main directory.
I'm going to go ahead and close that.
You can see these two files have been
added. I'm just going to collapse the
templates. So now, we can see under the
main directory, we do have the WRO
folder, or directory, if you should prefer
that has properties in it. You can
see preprocessors and postprocessors.
This is all configuration for that
WRO plugin of how it processes web
resources.
Now we can also say, let's come back
over to the configuration here. That
takes care of this. But now, we also have
a context folder for source main less
and that's the less resources. Let's
go ahead and grab that.
Copy that and come on back over here and
that again goes under main. I'll go
ahead and paste that.
You can see that IntelliJ
automatically opens up one of the files.
These are less files that need to get
pre-process. I'll go ahead and close
these too. Let's go ahead and kick the
tires on this a little bit. I'm going
to go ahead and start up the Spring Boot
application. We're going to make sure that
we're not getting any errors at this
point. I haven't done a lot of
looking into exactly how this plugin
works but it has a Maven plugin so
it's going to be doing stuff. I don't
think it's going to do much here. We
can see, I didn't see any chatter in here.
It is expected because this is a
Maven plugin. Just running a Spring Boot
application doesn't execute a Maven
plugin. But it did come up without
errors, so I'm going to go ahead and stop
that. Let's just minimize this window
here. Need to stop. But now if I come
over here under Spring Pet Clinic,
let's go ahead, I'm going to do a clean.
Let's do a package.
We can see this is now going out and
building. Right here is the WRO4J
plugin. We can see that he did execute.
We see that we did get a warning here.
Let's go ahead and take a look at
what it built. It did build up some
resources for us. If we come out here
and take a look at classes, you can see
static resources,
CSS. So apparently, it did build a CSS file
for us.
I'm not sure exactly what that means.
It did generate a less file for us. We
can see that it also generated a
JavaScript file possibly for us. I'm not
seeing the JavaScript generated anywhere
but we did get some things configured.
We'll kick the tires more on this
in the upcoming videos. But we see that we
did get a number of CSS files generated
or a CSS file generate, so this is our
custom CSS generated for the application.
That is behaving as we expected. We
are getting these resources generated now.
Remember I looked at this closer
because I saw references to CSS pet
clinic. Just to recap, what we are
doing is we're actually using this WRO4J
plugin, which is going to be
generating resources from less files and
combining those so it's also saying that
hey I need this web jar called bootstrap
involved. That is gonna give us a
bootstrap on the class path. Because
the way this is running, it is dependent
upon Maven to generate these resources.
We will have to run either the jar or
probably from the Spring command of Spring
Boot. Remember, you have a Spring Boot run
where we can run it from the Spring
Boot plugin. I'm pretty sure that
this is going to go ahead and generate
the resources for us, so we'll experiment
with that in an upcoming video. This
one's getting a little bit long. Just
to continue with working from issues,
I've implemented this. Again, we are
following a iterative development cycle.
We got this implemented. I'm going to
go ahead and close this. That was
number 24.
I'll go ahead and do a Git commit.
Go ahead and commit and push that.
Again, as this is pushing, we are
going through iterative development. This
is just an initial phase. We got
everything up and running. It looks like
it's happy and compiling what it should
and we will definitely be experimenting
with this in the future. But first, we
have to implement a lot of the other
resource processing to affect how this
page is going to be displaying.